hello welcome to a package minder
special interest group weekly sync to
save them some chains or something for
frame maintenance so that we all know
each other we jump into going through
the notes sure I make it very much
[Music]
chari 13 packet managers and
experimenting with lots of different
things
I'm Molly I'm in the IFS project working
group do lots of project project
leadership stuff and also thinking about
roadmaps and direction and how we bring
all of the great learnings from package
managers to all the other working groups
that we can solve other problems
I'm Jessica I do many of the things that
Molly described as well but I'm with a
focus on user experience and yeah that
will do for now
and I do want to introduce yourself hi
I'm Benna can you hear me yeah okay I am
working or names of one running
repositories for experimental ones and
they have cumulative size of 4 terabytes
now and I'm gaining some real-world
experience with what the problems are
and some resource leaks and missing
propagation of announcements other of
these things and IPS is not working as I
would like it so it's things I see but
long term I think six integration cool
yeah I think if you want to add yourself
along here we can spend some time also
hearing about your direct threat to
feedback and ideas about what could be
better I'd be awesome yeah I kind of
done we should skip through the updates
and go and talk about that kind of stuff
in more detail what easing of later
basically I pick let's cap I mean we can
lightning-fast to him or we can just
swap the order of things and talk talk
through stuff with when I heard before
we jump into good I only have one open
item for the three of you and that is
before I go and print out 10,000 sheets
of paper reflecting what I posted in
about if I I can proceed with going and
freaking out individual ones of those
just for a disaster-free thing for our
for our eighty-five session but we'll
just need to all get together in person
and pull out the ones that we actually
want to pick apart I think that's
probably the best thing seeing is how
I'm getting on saying tomorrow said I'll
make sense everybody do you have the
hack bad if you just stick it in check
maybe we can collaboratively let's take
a couple out because there where it's
like not be forever and it's like well
right not like our core value add even
though we wish it were it's like yeah
if maybe like in the next because I need
for all of us is to like ideally cut
down the list to the set that we think
are gonna be most interesting to talk
through during the deeper if we could
cut that down to my action can you hear
me can you hear me sorry Molly I think
I'm just going robotic I'm just knew if
we could cut down that giant list of
Andrews that Andrews Lincoln's to to
like say 20 which is still probably a
little optimistic but then we can dock
boat on those 20 and open those up for
discussions with everybody I think maybe
Molly still can't hear me
I could hear Malini at the time but she
can hear you maybe okay Rayland this
whole thing sorry about that
if we could cut them if we could cut the
combined list of both problems and
benefits down to about 20 that's still
probably a lot functionally - dot vote
on but I think we'll end up with you
know if we start with 20 we can knock it
down in person and see how we go I just
need to go to the service bureau this
afternoon to print out that and some
other camp stuff so if y'all could look
through it like the next hour - that
would be superb thank you anyone else
have blockers or asks or like that no
blockers I have been I was a late last
night hacking on ipfs NPM republish is
orders of magnitude faster it now works
offline
and it has the support for essentially
updating I mean euro is creating a new
thing on ipfs but updating an existing
micro registry that you've published to
IP of s so you can keep iterating on it
and adding each set of dependencies to
each version of a thing or you can
basically build your own mini registry
of the stuff that you care about by just
repeatedly running it and passing the
cid that you get each time there's no
interface for that yet but I thought
that might be a an interesting one to
create basically go like well list every
package I've got installed and jam them
all into a registry that has every
possible dependency that you could need
for any one of those versions of the
thing and you could do that all offline
because it utilizes the cache of
everything you've already installed on
NPM which is really cool and that's I
think is as far as I'll get before
actually like putting the lightning talk
together but it's kind of cool to be
able to turn your Wi-Fi off and say
publish and then install in and it works
across the only thing doesn't work right
now is get dependencies which is
annoying because there are J's ipfs
libraries that have kit dependencies
I've got a plan to make it mostly work
but it won't work 100 and offline and
the other plan is to tell the GSI PF has
people to remove all of their get
dependencies which kind of work around
it in the opposite way um but I won't do
a demo of anything now I'll just try and
get the lightning talk video ready and
but yeah sorry
forgot to ask one other question related
to our deep dive Andrew and Alex are you
two still okay on collaborating on a
here's where we are right now level
setting presentation at the beginning of
that deep dive which I say either you
could do it via the magic in video if
you wanted to capture yourself Andrew
Alex if you wouldn't mind giving the
introduction and then you know staying
in the deep dive as much as you see fit
that's the one piece that's missing that
I can't help with so I'm gonna make sure
we're still on that yep possibly
well it's nicely with the stuff I'm
doing for the team week presentation and
you just make the chunk of the problem
section and of that and we use it I mean
if you want if you feel comfortable sort
of punting on that to have a side
discussion at team week you know
whatever whatever you don't feel
comfortable with I just want to make
sure it doesn't fall off the radar
that's all
yeah just keep reminding us I know
[Laughter]
there's a cat here somewhere but she's
very fat and I can't find her well cool
that sounds awesome
thank you for reminding so it's just
fair Alex did you have stuff no boats
anything just been yeah working on you
know getting the MPM rescue mera running
on the Raspberry Pi so that we can use
ipfs NPM camp is broadcasting its
availability by mdns now I've got a like
a pre-release of NPM IPF I still look
for that mdns name on the local network
and it's going to be well good you were
gonna mother you were going to give me a
list of things to also make available a
variety of s on the network reiterate so
no Hank got it I have not
that list from from the electives yet
thinking that you know maybe they have
pre work that they want pre-installed
hopefully that stuff
I can send everyone an email and check
to see if that those things have
solidified but I'm also you know as a
one of the cat herders for content being
created for camp um they're literally
gonna be making me install stuff when we
practice running through their workshops
and so from there I will definitely get
a list of those things but I'll try and
see if I can get you anything that
exists
what's your that's your deadline just so
I know um well you know as possible
really because I can always download the
stuff for where you know Jen teen week
and that's the deadline is a factor of
the available network connections people
cool any other update so should we talk
about Finance
openness problem cool Bernard over to
you you tell us what you're doing and
what's not working how you expect it to
work
so currently I fetch the latest rolling
release updates of openSUSE that code
opens a tumblr mate
and that's like true to fire for our
gigabytes per day but I always do a full
snapshot so I get new CID and then I add
the CID to the oil tree there's some
object ipfs object up pitch pitch some
pitch thing so I have this coded and
adds a pitch then I have a new CID with
all the old stator in the history tree
and the current one replaced with the
current data and that's very useful so
if all the old data in there but also
the current one in the constant place
and then I publish updates but I tried
to publish that over IP NS and every
time I resolve it over IP NS it takes 60
seconds and then it's cached for a
minute and then it takes again 60
seconds it's not something you can use
rather so I went with some do DNS we
just put an ID FSC ID in there every day
that's working reasonably well but then
I notice it it's
ipfs process is growing and growing
every time I add data it's growing and
ted's this morning 8,000 connections
that's very strange because I said it
should only have a few hundred so
something is the connection manager so
it's not working there do you know how
many what Pierce you know how many peers
at house my house like 8,000 connections
like how long no it wasn't Pierce so I
said ipfs that spits water and soap it's
Bob said it wasn't appears that's
strange because the convict says it
should be between 600 and 900 which a
city fold so so something was strange to
it but this is a memory operation I
think you're using go IP a pass you know
what version you're using
20s was the latest statement 21 is the
latest stable and I actually it doesn't
mess yourself up I recommend updating
because 20 had a bug where it was it
just kept sending out connection
requests and not getting responses back
and so did a did a fast release to kind
of get well as fast as its what I
checked some days ago and 20 was there's
a latest but yeah I can update that's a
good trend on the on the 62nd APNs
resolute name resolution thing that's
because the demon like it waits to get a
number of confirmations it it makes a
bunch of requests for the latest hash of
a given type ENS name and compares them
and if you know to make sure that it's
got the latest one and every now and
again it'll hit make it requests to
appear that's behind an app and it will
timeout and that's why I always takes
that 60 seconds it's something the IP a
nice clothes are aware of and they're
working on and they kind of make it
faster so it picks a random peer so I
don't use random I think it there is a
no rhythm that he uses I'm not hung up
central more days but if I see it makes
a bunch of connections to verify that
it's got the latest version of the IP NS
name you have the CID that it was going
to and if one of those is behind in that
which should love them are x out which
is why it takes it's something that
could be addressed I guess in different
ways like having a shorter time or
choosing 10 different ones and ignored
hey they're trying a bunch of different
stuff looking into using DNS for doing
ok nice resolution which will be able to
go faster by then you can kind of rely
on centralized infrastructure a little
bit but kind of disability trade-off is
definitely worth its then it's going to
get better
something that I've heard other people
doing I'm not sure how much we recommend
this but if you reduce the number here's
you need to get a confirmation from from
20 which is relatively high to something
more like eat or or something like that
you're just you're doing fewer round
trips you're more likely to get
responses from peers without having to
like wait for your timeout so there's a
config option for that but I haven't
actually tried twiddling myself I just
know that other people have made that
choice to have IPs look for fewer here
okay kids play and guess my heart I
think we'd be really interested to know
like kind of like what about you excited
about putting openSUSE on ipfs and kind
of yours your top level goals like what
what is most appealing about that to you
because we're we're trying to make sure
that you know people have that
opportunity and then it's a great
experience for everyone so the more
background info you can give us on that
I'm where we can hopefully help so I
like cystic wants the integrated
deduplication because there's the
snapshot and every snapshot has a lot of
the same data as a previous snapshot so
I think one snapshot is 98 gigabyte
total but there's only two to four
gigabyte new data in there so I can keep
a history without adding 90 gigabyte
each day but only I think about each day
and then I'm doing it for the producer
with this thing so whenever I want to
clip use a binary and it's the would buy
any set they use like old compiler and
so it as I - chains and normally is not
around anymore and then you can't refuse
artifacts anymore but know it has its
history and I can pick the items they
have a small database 5a I say okay if
it's using this versions and it's this
IP FSC ID and then it can just fix the
cid and turning it into my dependencies
and use it during that that's really
nice nice feet and at the same time I
could use it to update my laptop at home
because I fetch it once and then it can
update the same that as the next laptop
next to it without fetching all the data
from the internet again so this
automatic mirroring that's really a nice
feature that's what I liked this bit
remember patron does really not suited
to this use case so that's the main use
cases on my side maybe a used surface
quit but the script has these problems
that we have a download read you liked
on opposite
servants if needed electro sometimes
points this way and sometimes points
another way and it's good doesn't notice
it it's actually the same fire on this
different mirrors so it keeps
downloading duplicates and then I
started pointing to one specific mirror
and only use that one but then sometimes
f1 was outdated or inconsistent copy so
some fights where from the new your lip
went somewhere wouldn't and it was
missing missing things up and yeah so it
was not not perfect and sometimes even
fights got replaced so normally a lot of
soft assumes that I it's not replaced so
if you do a new ability get a new build
number but sometimes every renames and
sirenians course builder must to go down
again and yeah it's the same file it was
the same names again and remove us would
zooms him because already has us fine in
so all these problems you don't get when
you have snapshots was really graphic a
consistency that's pretty nice we're
about to store in your history of all
your snapshot snapshots that I could get
if you want to see it's Suzie Q one
Dottie and there's a DNS link entry on a
separate DNS so I can point the cname to
some cloud fair IPSS async but that's
not working too very I found its the
ipfs i/o one is working better sometimes
have been a little bit on fire or the
4.20 release and so we're fingers
crossed that things are getting better
but I've been noticing problems you're
not the only one okay
I hope I'm wasn't so the course I saw
some 182 the plate
no gigabyte give it one has 80 gigabytes
passing by my server in a few days since
it's not so myself okay but if if the
gateways passes through so if people
really go through the gateways which
P and the Gateway switches from Isis and
it's put some load on the gateways not
sure if the public's that's for these
first gateways yes oh I can try deep
laser and 21 quick reasons and see if
things get better with what's left on
militias I put some night signature for
the parameters used to tune your my
pianist named look yeah so if you're
getting about a you said a gigabyte
passing through your node in a day I
think the gateway in general is serving
something thing between like ten and
twenty five gigabytes or terabytes per
day so there's a lot there's a lot of
other traffic so don't worry your that
is that would not be overloading at all
okay so I won't break it
that's good for ya okay so the options
to a peon if you name resolve but that's
not what you're using when you're going
through the gateway you go through
localhost 8080 / - and that doesn't have
this option of course so it's a maybe
config option if you care if you if
you're using the HTTP API then you'll
you can pass the parameter
also just Chris remarks yeah what does
another good measure say check out the
documentation so as you can see I'm
still pretty new to all of the things
you live like you know this is what I'm
doing so I want to get out is like one
right on on our expectation of like some
cool stuff and it's super exciting to us
that like you're picking it up and
running with it so thank you so much
also for coming and chatting with us
about it where you're learning stuff by
talking to you and excited to get help
and it goes without saying but please
come back and chat anytime what was the
last part welcome to come back at any
time and you know any other question or
just a chat you know where to find us
every week that's good yeah I would try
to join as often as I can it's not
always possible because family
obligations okay any questions yes four
terabytes but it's actually only a few
hundred gigabytes of data and because of
CD duplication that's currently stored
on my server and oh the next thing we
haven't found any definite things yet is
once it grows too much for this one
server so can I put it on some offline
machine so it puts a history on some
offline machine or ISM not not so very
connected machine because mostly the
current data will be used but then I
have to unpin all the data on the server
and that's might be a bit tricky so this
how do we manage Pinsir correctly
and I kept as cluster basically lets you
manage pen sets across multiple machines
currently it's only one machine so you
have a lot of people one machine and
like everyday art and you can for the
new snapshot recursive oversees 19 any
give you ideas cluster and so you add a
new machine then it will start doing the
balance across multiple machines and I
do this cluster kind of lets you have a
close that are pinning content across
different places and so if you start
pinning things to cluster it'll be like
oh well it already has the stuff pinned
on this machine but maybe I want you
know X x factor of replication so all
like as well and when you get new stuff
like this one has space I will pin it
here instead of another place so it has
like restarting stuff it has most of the
functionality that you probably want I
don't know if it necessarily helps like
migrating to cluster means that you
you're gonna have to like do that
configuration um versus and you're
mentioning that you're kind of already
in a place where you're manually pinning
all of these these historical snapshots
right it was quick doing it this is from
daily and Sunday leekens it for me it's
not really manually but because of the
resource leaks I have to go in manually
into a queue or idea of this get it
restarted it syncs it's also not whether
we start from Android or the config
reload because sometimes
trained to convict and advices you need
to restart at a a man but there's no
restock command and no conflict no
command that's also something I was
wondering because many many classic UNIX
demons have sent a secret and if he sent
us a Cooper Theresa could begin and use
a nucleus instead of the old ones that
sounds like a good suggestion to make to
the co-active hats Reaper opening issue
you see dad okay okay Ken does it yeah I
know that I give us desktop which is my
way of always running my own note that
definitely has a research but that's an
API
you
we are we're at time
hi Angie
do you want to talk further no I just
like to jump up to another meeting
thanks for letting us know but thank you
all so so much for coming it was great
to chat with you yes thank you very much
if you want to come back and have a chat
about more problems just just turn off
your penis in advance and we try and get
people who implemented the thing they
are having the problem with on the call
and they can definitely help you up
Thanks so see you possibly another week